A Java Archive (JAR) is described by its manifest file.

The manifest file is named MANIFEST.MF and is located
under the META-INF directory in the JAR. It’s simply a list of key and value pairs,
called headers or attributes, grouped into sections.

These headers supply metadata
that help us describe aspects of our JAR
such as the versions of packages, what application class to execute,
the classpath, signature material and much more.

build a jar
->jar cf MyJar.jar classes/

We can include this file(manifest.txt) and jar will merge it with the default manifest file
when we use the m option:
manifest.txt data
Built-By: nileshjain


jar cfm MyJar.jar manifest.txt classes/

A header must follow a certain format and be separated by a new line:

A valid header must have a space between the colon and the value.
Another important point is there must be a new line at the end of the file.
Otherwise, the last header is ignored.

Main headers typically provide general information:

Manifest-Version: the version of the specification
Created-By: the tool version and vendor that created the manifest file
Multi-Release: if true, then this is a Multi-Release Jar
Built-By: this custom header gives the name of the user that created the manifest file

If our JAR contains a runnable application then we can specify the entry point. Similarly, we can provide the classpath. By doing so, we avoid having to specify it when we want to run it.

Main-Class: the package and name of the class with a main method (no .class extension)
Class-Path: a space separated list of relative paths to libraries or resources
For example, if our application entry point is in Application.class and it uses libraries and resources then we can add the needed headers:

Main-Class: com.cryptohash.Application
Class-Path: core.jar lib/ properties/
The classpath includes core.jar and all the files in the lib and properties directories.
 These assets are loaded relative to where the JAR is executed and not from within the JAR itself. In other words, they must exist outside the JAR.





